# Using Supervised Learning to Estimate Particulate Matter

With air pollution increasingly becoming one of the deadliest environmental issues worldwide, this study looks to observe a specific type of air pollution called particulate matter (PM2.5). PM2.5 consists of inhalable particles, less than 2.5 microns or 0.0025 millimeters in size and is a leading environmental cause for cardiovascular diseases and mortality. Many places in the world, especially in developing countries that are rapidly industrializing and urbanizing, do not have adequate access to PM2.5 ground monitors, or even normal weather stations to directly observe and measure high concentration rates. This study strives to determine how accurately particulate matter can be estimated using only readily available Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite imagery. In order to retrieve years of satellite imagery data, the statistical programming language, R, was used to HTTP Request directly to NASA’s data archives.

Python was also used in this model to filter out inapplicable data, automate mapping tools, and manipulate large datasets for training models. By creating linear regression models through supervised learning, MODIS data was compared with ground monitor stations across the contiguous United States to estimate particulate matter. Correlation trends were observed temporally (period of time), seasonally, and latitudinally. In order to further show the applicability of the model, an interactive tool was created through a NodeJS server to allow users to further observe particulate matter based on a specific entered date and location. Although satellite imagery passover cannot solely estimate particulate matter, the model and interactive tool provide useful information about air pollution hotspots that need to be monitored and remediated to help the people and surrounding environment. 
